There's a question about, it looks like
there's a number of ways that you can
fetch data, whether you're using
useEffect, React query or TanStack query.
They seem to share a lot
of the same purposes,
what's a use case I would use
Tanstack query over say useEffect?
>> Brian Holt: It's good question,
you can choose for yourself, right?
So I've kind of shown you both
ways cuz I wanted you to see,
this is a personal preference and
I'm gonna say this is not a controversial.
Opinion here, is that the industry
tends to just use React Query
when it comes to making API
requests on a regular basis.
This API is just a lot nicer that
it has built in caching into it,
the hooks are super nice,
it has refreshing built into it.
It has nice error handling,
all the stuff that you would have to
kind of just reconstruct yourself.
This is such an elegant tool in my opinion
and honestly, this is one of the tools I
hold up as like a prime example of
really good developer experiences.
Because you can use
React Query however you want,
it really doesn't enforce
an opinion too much on you.
It's just a very useful tool that's
generally applicable to almost every
problem when it comes to react
components making API requests.
That's why I don't really feel too much
controversy in saying just always use this
if you're using an API, right?
If you wanna refetch every single time
you just set the stale time to 0 and
all of a sudden, okay?
Now it's gonna refetch at
every single time, right?
I can't remember if it's zero or infinity.
>> Brian Holt: So I think what I did here
is, I think I made it always refetch or
something like that maybe it's one there,
might even be, no cache, or
something like that, you'd have to go
look at what the actual, here it is.
We'll use enabled here in just a second,
you can tell it how many pages
you want it to hold max,
there's a bunch of stuff anyway,
maybe just make this one.
Anyway, so when would I use useEffect?
UseEffect still has its place, if I had
to talk to local storage or something
like that, I might find a library for
that, I might just use an effect for that.
A good example is like, okay,
I loaded a component and
I wanna fire off analytics events,
I'd use an effect for that.
Yeah, so it still has its use cases.
>> Male Student 2: With remote state
management, is TanStack a better solution
or is something like Zustand or
Redux handle that better?
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna say that they're
different tools for different jobs,
you can use Zustand or
something like that with React Query.
You certainly can use Redux as a cache,
there's no reason that you couldn't,
but they serve different purposes.
The TanStack store is more directly
competing with Zustand and all of those.
Like I said, I tend not to use any
state management libraries anymore,
but if I was building
something like Figma, right?
Very big, complicated browser
app that's gonna have a lot of
browsers-based data that's gonna
be shared across lots of teams,
then I would use something
like Zustand to coordinate
across a massive big app that
has lots of app level data.
I'm not the person that's gonna use it on
a very small app, but on an enormous app,
I think at that scale and
with that many people looking at the app,
it makes more sense to me.
>> Male Student 3: Kadi Kraman uses,
Zustand in our React Native courses.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Male Student 3: It's released, so
if you're interested in Zustand, right?
You wanna learn more about it?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I would say with
an iOS app where you have many pages and
it's all being stored in
the same thing with React Native,
that makes a lot of sense to me.
>> Male Student 4: Do you have any
opinions about putting query code inside
a custom hook?
>> Brian Holt: It's a good question, so
why wouldn't I put this
one in a custom hook?
Cuz I don't think that makes it
any clearer what this is doing,
and I'm not gonna test.
I'm not gonna write tests for React Query,
Tanner Lindley and the react or
the TanStack team test it plenty more
than I ever wanna test it, right?
So I don't wanna test my libraries,
I assume my libraries test themselves, and
so if I put this into a custom hook,
there'd be nothing
interesting to test about it.
So I just wouldn't, however,
if I had seven requests that were
firing off in serial and I wanted to
make sure that the right things were
being called in the right in order.
Yeah, I'd make that a custom hook,
but for just one request, no,
I'm okay just putting this
directly in the component.
I just chose these two because almost
every app that you write has API requests.
Almost every app you write has routing
needs, or at least very frequently,
so I chose these two, but there's other
ones out there, like virtual tables.
Those can be super useful form libraries,
all sorts of stuff like that.
There's lots of things to talk about with
CSS, and I decided to not talk too much
about CSS in the intro to this one,
it's a pretty fractured ecosystem.
So there's not an obvious one to
teach you like this is the answer.
Once you understand React,
layering in CSS is not super hard.
I'll just throw in that I'm
of the opinion, typically,
let's say if I have this, PizzaOfTheDay,
I'll just come in here and
say, PizzaOfTheDay.css.
And this will just be normal run,
not very interesting CSS and
then here in PizzaOfTheDay.jsx,
I'll just say import ./PizzaOfTheDay.css.
That's how I like to do it, it keeps it
pretty simple I'm just writing direct CSS.
And actually,
if you really wanna get into it,
what I'll do is I'll actually have
a directory, PizzaOfTheDay directory.
I'll have the component in there,
I'll have the CSS in there,
I'll have all the tests for it in there.
My favorite part about that pattern is,
let's say I just we've decided later that
we're going to Pizza of the month, right?
And now we need a whole new component with
new tests and new CSS, if you don't do it
this way you have to go hunt for all
the files and delete them individually.
Or even worse and even more likely
is that you just don't, and
you leave dead code in your code base,
right?
If you structure it like that where it's
just a directory of everything's kind
of self-contained in directory,
you just delete the whole directory and
you're just assured that all of
the related code goes with it.
I wasn't intending to talk about CSS or
anything like that but
that's how I do handle it
nine times out of ten.
I can hear chat now furiously just banging
away it's like what about Tailwind?
I was like okay,
[LAUGH] I understand Tailwind,
I've taught Tailwind as
part of intermediate.
So if you wanna see how I use
Tailwind it's Intermediate React,
v5, there's a section on Tailwind.
I've kinda come back around to it as,
I don't really like using it,
I kinda like writing CSS, right?
But I don't judge those that do,
I don't have any strong opinion of like,
I don't like the class names or
anything like that.
I am just personally have a bit
of Stockholm syndrome around CSS,
that I've been doing it for so
long that now I kinda like it.
And so I'm just gonna keep doing that but
if I hadn't had so
many years of fighting floats,
[LAUGH] then I probably would be more
drawn to something like Tailwind, right?
So totally valid if you use it in your
code base I'm not upset, I will have
contribute to a Tailwind code base, it's
just not what I'm gonna choose personally.
And I will say,
I think it's probably the most common
thing with React now is to write Tailwind.
That's just a feeling,
I'm not sure if that's actually true, but
certainly I see that being very common.